USAGE

This package requires Ruby 2.6 or above.

Usage is pretty simple:

require 'jdcrypt/rijndael'
key = "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
cipher = JdCrypt::Rijndael.new(key)
plaintext = "hello world....."
ciphertext = cipher.encrypt(plaintext)
plaintext = cipher.decrypt(ciphertext)

Some things to note, though:

- This is a block encryption cipher, only encrypting to blocks of
  particular sizes. If you try to put text in that is not of the
  correct block size, it will refuse it.

- Key generation is outside the scope of this module - please be
  sure to generate suitably random keys from a reliable random
  source.  Encrypting to a predictable key is not sensible.

- JdCrypt::AES is a subclass of JdCrypt::Rijndael, the only difference
  being that it only supports one block size(128 bit)

- There is a simple PKCS#5-padded CBC implementation here. If you're
  not using data that fits exactly into a block size, you should
  use this as follows:

  iv="01234556789abcdef"
  ciphertext=cipher.encrypt_CBC(iv, "hello world")
  puts cipher.decrypt_CBC(iv, ciphertext)

NOTES

The initialisation vector (IV) doesn't need to be pure-random, but
you probably want it to be unique as it helps prevent (partially)
identical messages from having (partially) identical ciphertexts.
Block chaining is outside the scope of this module really; the
methods above are provided only for convenience. Note that this
functionality is compatible with OpenSSL in aes-*-cbc mode with a
specific IV and key.

If you "build" the pure-ruby core, it'll always be what the test
script uses.

COMPATIBILITY AND PERFORMANCE

Ruby 2.6: works on universal.arm64e-darwin22 (note: the binary should also work
on other architectures). On the test machine, it can encrypt/decrypt at around
6-8MiB/s. When using the pure-ruby core (using the _binary_ JdCrypt::ByteStream) it
gets around 200KiB/s.

COPYRIGHT

This files in this distribution (with the exception of bwulf10.txt)
are copyright 2005-2023 Jim Driscoll <jim.a.driscoll@gmail.com>; please see
the included file COPYING for details.
